Source: https://www.kitchener.ca/en/development-and-construction/apply-for-a-building-permit.aspx
Title: Apply for a building permit | City of Kitchener
Category: municipal_services

Apply for a building permit
Section Menu
There are different processes for residential and industrial, commercial and institutional (ICI) building permits. Learn about both on this page.
Check the status of your building permit
On this page:
Building bylaw
Apply for a residential building permit
Apply for a triplex, apartment or ICI building permit
Tips when hiring consultants
Designer requirements
Drawing requirements
Processing time
Online services
Permit fees
When we issue your permit
Inspections
Conditional permits
City’s commitment to respectful interactions
The City of Kitchener is committed to making sure everyone is treated with respect. This means being kind and polite when using City services, visiting City facilities and parks, or attending events. Read more about
the City’s commitment to respectful interactions
.
Building bylaw
The
building bylaw
outlines what projects you need a building permit to complete.
Apply for a residential building permit
Before you start,
check if you need a building permit for your project
.
You can apply for a residential building permit using our
online services tool.
To apply in person, please
book an appointment
.
If you have any questions about residential projects,
send us an email
or call 519-741-2433.
Apply for a triplex, apartment or ICI building permit
You can apply for a triplex (or greater), apartment, industrial, commercial and/or institutional building permit using our
online service tool
.
For a list of permit application requirements or to confirm if a permit is required,
send us an email
with your questions.
When applying through the portal, please select one of the following options for the property type and new application type. The permit will be updated accordingly when it has been received on our end for processing.
Select a property type:
option one
: Residential Property
option two
: Non-Residential Property
New application type:
option one
: Residential Property - Special Multi-Res Public Portal Application
option two
: Non-Residential Property – Special Non-Res Public Portal Application
Complete the permit portal process and record your permit number. We will contact the applicant within two business days to provide a status update.
Permit application package
Your completed permit package will include complete and signed copies of:
permit application
Commitment to General Review (CTGR) form and/or Schedule 1 form
Follow these guidelines for your plans and documents:
all plans must have a stamp from an architect, professional engineer or qualified designer
all electronic plans and documents must be in PDF format
do not password protect or otherwise secure your files
Organize your permit package by discipline. Examples include:
architectural
structural
application form
CTGR form
For your drawings, follow these guidelines:
small drawing sets (fewer than 20 pages): one PDF for all drawings, keep documents as separate files
large drawing sets (more than 20 pages): one PDF for each section (architectural, mechanical, application form etc.)
Tips when hiring consultants
When planning a renovation or construction project, you may need to hire a Consultant (Architect, Engineer or Qualified Designer) to prepare construction drawings required for a building permit. If this is your first time hiring a consultant, you might feel uncertain about who to choose. The City of Kitchener has compiled helpful tips to guide you in selecting a consultant for your project and set you up for success.
Tips when hiring consultants as part of construction or change of use building permits
Designer requirements
The Ontario Building Code requires us to ensure all drawings submitted are prepared and reviewed by a qualified, registered designer, architect or professional engineer.
The following information must be included on all documents submitted to a chief building official or registered code agency:
the name and building code identification number (BCIN) of the registered firm
a statement that the qualified person has reviewed and taken responsibility for the design activities
the name and BCIN of the qualified person
the signature of the qualified person
Drawing requirements
Requirements for all drawings
be fully dimensioned - elevation and construction floor plans shall be drawn to scale: min. 1:75 or 3/16” = 1’
note all sizes and types of construction materials that will be used, as well as the locations of these materials
note finishes to all walls, ceilings and floors
all existing and proposed fire separations
Project-specific requirements
After you speak with your team, they will explain what’s needed for your project.
Common requirements
site plan
key plan
lot grading plan
floor plans
foundation plans
framing plans
roof plans
reflected ceiling plans
sections and details
building elevations
structural drawings
architectural drawings
electrical drawings
heating, ventilation and air conditioning drawings
plumbing drawings
fire alarm drawings
travel distance plans
exit capacity plans
on-site sewage system design
Sprinkler drawings
Sprinkler drawings are not needed at the time of application, but they must be submitted for approval after permit issuance and prior to installation.
Alterations, renovations and additions
Your drawings must differentiate between the existing building and the proposed new work. After you speak with your team, they will explain what’s needed for your project.
Common requirements
spatial separation calculations
fire protection reports
building code related reports
record of site condition
Processing time
When we get your application, we will review it within:
10 business days
: renovation or new construction of a house where no dwelling unit is above another dwelling unit, a detached structure that serves a house and does not exceed 55 m² in building area and tents.
15 business days
: renovation or new construction of a building smaller than 600m² or three storeys
20 business days
: buildings larger than 600m²
30 business days
: post-disaster buildings and building classified as a high building
We appreciate your patience if processing times are longer than the times listed above.
When the review is complete, staff will email you to inform you that the permit is ready for issuance or a status letter with a list of deficiencies that you will need to address in order for the permit to be issued.
Timeframes for re-reviews will vary depending on permit application activity levels.
Online services
After you apply, you’ll use our
online services
to access:
the status of your permit (within two business days)
permit drawings and documents
invoices
book inspections
your inspection results
Permit fees
Visit our
building permit fees
to find:
current permit fees
how to pay your fee
rebate fees
damage deposit
stormwater management fee
development charges
When we issue your permit
Login to our
online services
to get your permit information, then:
print the permit and post it on site, visible from the road (you can remove the permit after the final building inspection is approved)
print the approved building permit drawings, full size and in colour
always have the approved plans and drawings on site for the building inspector (inspection may fail if plans are not on site)
Inspections
You can
book building inspections online
. After your inspection, you can check if the inspection passed or failed and read the inspector’s notes.
Or call our inspection request line at 519-741-2761. Have your permit number ready, including your inspection codes that can be found at the bottom of your permit.
Please book your inspection(s) by 3 p.m. on the day before your inspection.
Conditional permits
A conditional permit (CP) is a permit issued under Section 8(3) of the Building Code Act at the discretion of our Chief Building Official (CBO). A CP may be issued when the applicant can show that applicable laws, including site plan approval, are forthcoming and that the approval timeframes are unreasonable and are causing unnecessary construction delays.
Find this information below:
eligibility
, including when the application can be refused
limitations of CPs
cost
application
conditional permit process
Eligibility
You can apply for a CP in the cases in the accordions below.
A CP application is not a fast track to circumvent planning approvals or the time necessary for normal building code technical reviews, which ensure that public health and safety standards are being met.
Part 9 model home
Subdivision is registered or a model home agreement has been executed (see step five of the
conditional permit process
, submit a conditional permit application).
All other cases
Where subject to site plan approval under s.41 of the Planning Act, plans or drawings have been stamped ‘endorsed’ and, approval in principle (AIP) has been issued by the Director of Planning, except for a Part 9 model home.
Any necessary zoning, heritage, conservation authority or environmental permissions have been obtained and any appeal period has expired, or appeals have been resolved.
If a minor variance was necessary, then the variance must be approved by the Committee of Adjustment and all appeal periods must have lapsed and/or any appeals have been fully resolved.
All required applications set out in the OBC in Section 1.4.1.3. “Definition of Applicable Law” have been filed, and approvals are forthcoming.
Refusal
Our Chief Building Official (CBO) may refuse a CP application for any reason.
We cannot issue a CP if certain planning, heritage, conservation authority or environmental approvals are not completed. Other refusal decisions may include an objection from another approval agency, where applications have only been very recently filed or when the owner has not filed all required documents.
The CBO’s decision is final. There is no appeal available on CP decisions.
Limitations of CPs
A Conditional Permit (CP) allows an owner to lawfully start construction entirely at their own risk in some circumstance

[Content truncated...]
