Source: https://www.kitchener.ca/en/parking/parking-tickets.aspx
Title: Parking and non-parking tickets | City of Kitchener
Category: municipal_services

Parking and non-parking tickets
Section Menu
If you get a parking or non-parking ticket in Kitchener, you can make a payment or dispute the ticket by requesting a review from a screening officer.
Pay a ticket online
On this page:
Pay a ticket
Bylaw guide
Dispute a ticket
Pay a ticket
You can
pay your parking or non-parking ticket online
. We accept Visa and MasterCard.
If you lost your ticket or have any questions, call 519-741-2345.
There is a $1.75 charge for online payments.
Can’t find your ticket number in our system?
It may take up to 14 days for your ticket to enter our system. If no results are found for your ticket number, please check back later.
Other payment methods
You can also:
pay in person, by cash, cheque or debit at City Hall’s Revenue Desk at
200 King Street West
(
book an appointment
) or at our bylaw enforcement office at
33 Ontario Street North
drop off a cheque with your ticket in a payment box on
Young Street outside of city hall
mail your cheque payment to:
City of Kitchener - Revenue Division
200 King St. W.
P.O. Box 9058
Kitchener, ON N2G 4G7
Bylaw guide
Visit our
bylaw guide page
to find our bylaws, including noise, parking, animals, fireworks and more.
Dispute a ticket
If you disagree with a ticket, you can request a review from a screening officer within 30 days of getting the ticket.
To request a review:
call 519-741-2345
send us an email
If you request a review from a screening officers after the 30 day mark but before 60 days after getting the ticket, the screening officer will review the request and decide if a review of the ticket will happen.
After a screening officer reviews your ticket, you can
request a review from a hearing officer
if you are not satisfied with their decision. You must also make this request within 30 days of getting the ticket. This decision will be final and binding.
Hearing officers
A hearing officer is an independent, third-party contractor who holds hearings for parking penalties in Kitchener and Waterloo. Hearings take place once a month. The decision made by the hearing officer is final and binding.
Authorize a representative
You can
authorize someone to act on your behalf
related to your ticket (including during a hearing). The registered owner of the vehicle needs to fill out the form and give their signed consent.
Submit a complaint
If you have concerns about the screening or hearing process,
submit a complaint
. You cannot submit a request or oppose a screening or hearing decision using this form.
Related documents
If you want to see disclosure documents related to your ticket, fill out our
online form
.
Request an extension
If you cannot address your ticket within the allowed timeframe, you can
request an extension
. We will only grant an extension if there are extenuating circumstances.
Contact Us
City of Kitchener
200 King Street West,
Kitchener, Ontario
Telephone:
519-741-2345
,
TTY:
1-866-969-9994
mailto:
info@kitchener.ca
