Source: https://www.kitchener.ca/en/bylaws-and-enforcement/parking-bylaws.aspx
Title: Parking bylaws | City of Kitchener
Category: municipal_services

Parking bylaws
Section Menu
We have parking bylaws to keep residents, drivers and business owners safe. Below, you can find a summary of our parking bylaws. Please follow these regulations when parking your vehicle anywhere in Kitchener.
Report a problem
On this page:
Report a problem
Street parking bylaws
Winter parking
Boulevard parking
Camera enforcement vehicle
Where to park if you're doing work on your driveway
Parking bylaw documents
Report a problem
If a vehicle violates any of our parking bylaws, we will issue a ticket and the vehicle may be towed at its owner’s expense. Parking ticket fines can range from $20 to $300.
To report a violation of our parking bylaws, call
519-741-2345
.
Report a problem online
Street parking bylaws
Please do not park your vehicle:
for more than 3 consecutive hours on any city street from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., unless signs are posted that say otherwise
on or over any sidewalk, or on a city boulevard - paved or grass, including between the sidewalk and street
in prohibited areas
facing the opposite direction to traffic
on private property without the consent of the owner or occupant
within 3 metres of a fire hydrant
in a designated fire route
in an accessible parking space without an
accessible parking permit
clearly displayed on your dashboard
for a second time within five hours of first parking in the two-hour free parking spots downtown
within 1.5m of a driveway
Vehicles with expired licence plates or without licence plates cannot park on city streets.
The Ontario Ministry of Transportation has a
list of street signs
on their website.
Commercial vehicle parking
Commercial vehicles that weigh more than 4,500 kg (4.6 tons) are not allowed to park on city streets.
Winter parking
Overnight parking exemptions
You can request an
overnight parking exemption
to park in a legal parking spot overnight between December 1 and March 31.
You do not need an exemption to park in a legal parking spot overnight between April 1 and November 30.
Snow Events
When more than 8 cm of snow is forecast, or a Snow Event is declared, you cannot park on city streets.
During a snow event, check our
social media pages
for up-to-date information.
Boulevard parking
If you have a driveway with access to single family, semi-detached and street fronting townhouses, you can park on the boulevard of your driveway.
When you park on the boulevard, you must follow these regulations:
park facing the direction of traffic
do not park on the landscaped portions of the boulevard
do not access the paved part of the boulevard by driving over the landscaped portions
park fully on the paved portion of the boulevard
all tires must be fully on the hard surface
no part of the vehicle can overhang the sidewalk or the curb or road edge
When you cannot park on your boulevard
if your driveway is connected to your neighbour’s driveway, do not park your vehicle in a way that crosses the property line
do not park on the boulevard if your driveway is within 15 metres of an intersection
if you live in a school zone, you must remove your vehicle from the boulevard before 8 a.m. from Monday to Friday
Camera enforcement vehicle
Our camera enforcement vehicles scan licence plates to help us enforce parking time limits on our streets, including:
re-parking limit within the downtown core
three-hour parking time limit
stopping in no stopping school zones
enforcement in surface parking lots
We store the information collected on a secure City of Kitchener server. We keep the information for the time required by the city's records retention by-law. We do not keep any information that is not related to a parking infraction. All information collected is private and confidential.
Where to park if you're doing work on your driveway
If you're doing work on your driveway and cannot park in your regular spot, call
519-741-2345
to ask for an exemption from our regular 3-hour on-street parking rule.
This process does not apply from December 1 to March 31.
Visit our
road construction information page
to learn about parking when there is city work near your home.
Parking bylaw documents
Review our full parking bylaws:
Traffic and Parking Bylaw
Accessible Parking Bylaw
Contact Us
City of Kitchener
200 King Street West,
Kitchener, Ontario
Telephone:
519-741-2345
,
TTY:
1-866-969-9994
mailto:
info@kitchener.ca
