Source: https://www.kitchener.ca/en/development-and-construction/building-permit-fees.aspx
Title: Building permit fees | City of Kitchener
Category: municipal_services

Building permit fees
Section Menu
Before we can issue you a building permit for your upcoming construction work, we must collect the relevant fees.
On this page:
Permit fees
Pay your fee
Rebate fees
Damage deposit
Stormwater management fee
Development charges
Permit fees
Our fee schedule includes our current building permit fees.
A rebate fee may apply to your building permit. We automatically refund this fee when the inspector approves the final building inspection.
Find permit fees:
in our
fee schedule
on our
residential building permits page
on our
industrial, commercial and institutional building permits page
Pay your fee
You can pay your fee:
by credit card
online
using electronic funds transfer
by cheque
in person by appointment
By credit card
You can pay by VISA or Mastercard for:
building permits
rebate program
freedom of information request fees
survey request fees
The maximum credit card charge is $5,000 per permit.
We do not accept credit card for development charges or damage deposits.
You can pay by credit card
in person at City Hall
or
online
.
Online
You can pay by VISA or Mastercard from the
online services portal
for:
building permits
rebate program
freedom of information request fees
survey request fees
The maximum credit card charge is $5,000 per permit.
We do not accept credit card for development charges or damage deposits.
Pay online
Electronic funds transfer
To pay your permit fee by electronic funds transfer (EFT), follow these steps.
Please note that EFT is not an e-transfer or a bill payment option.
Step 1: Set up your payment
Your building permit fees are due when you get your invoice from our building division.
Before starting an EFT payment, you must contact your bank to set up a payee for our account.
Please
send us an email
asking for the EFT account numbers, including your project address and permit number.
Step 2: Fill out the EFT form
After sending the EFT payment, immediately complete our
online form
.
We cannot continue to process your payment before you submit this form.
Step 3: Get a digital receipt
We will send you a digital receipt after processing the EFT payment.
Step 4: Approval or hold
If there is a discrepancy in the fee payment, we will contact you. We may place a hold on the permit until the payment is resolved.
By cheque
Mail a cheque for your payment that includes your permit number to:
City of Kitchener
Building division - 5th floor
200 King Street West
Kitchener, ON N2G 4G7
You can also drop a cheque that includes your permit number in the drop box outside City Hall on Young Street.
In person by appointment
Please
book an appointment
to pay your permit fee in person. We accept debit and
credit cards
at City Hall.
Book an appointment
City’s commitment to respectful interactions
The City of Kitchener is committed to making sure everyone is treated with respect. This means being kind and polite when using City services, visiting City facilities and parks, or attending events. Read more about
the City’s commitment to respectful interactions
.
Rebate fees
Find the rebate fee for your project on these pages:
ICI building permits
residential building permits
These projects do not require rebate fees:
decks
pools
sheds
foundation permits
tents
bar and restaurant outdoor patios
portable classrooms
Damage deposit
We collect a damage deposit on applicable projects to ensure the road around the project is not damaged during construction. If the road is damaged and not fixed, the money collected will be used to make the repairs needed.
The damage deposit, and the related inspection fee, are required before we issue your building permit.
damage deposit
: $142.32 per metre of frontage
inspection fee
: $51 per metre of frontage, to a maximum of $488
Once grading and all site work have been completed, call us at 519-741-2406 or
send us an email
to request your damage deposit refund. We will perform the site inspection; if no damages are found, we will refund your damage deposit only. This may take up to four weeks.
Stormwater management fee
We collect a
stormwater management
fee on applicable projects before we issue a building permit. Please contact us at 519-741-2406 for more information.
Development charges
Development charges
may also apply before we issue your building permit. Please review all necessary information ahead of submitting your permit application.
Contact Us
City of Kitchener
200 King Street West,
Kitchener, Ontario
Telephone:
519-741-2345
,
TTY:
1-866-969-9994
mailto:
info@kitchener.ca
