Source: https://www.kitchener.ca/taxes-utilities-and-finance/property-taxes/paying-your-taxes/
Title: Paying your taxes | City of Kitchener
Category: municipal_services

Paying your taxes
Section Menu
We charge property taxes in four instalments each year. You can pay your taxes through your bank, by mail, in person and through pre-authorized payments. Find out more about
how your property tax rate is calculated.
On this page:
Book an appointment
Pay by e-billing
Pre-authorized payment plans
Pay through your bank
Pay with credit card
Pay by mail
Payment boxes
Pay in person
Payment by your mortgage provider
Due dates
2026 tax rates
Penalties and interest charges
Book an appointment
Appointments are available, but not required to make property tax payments in person.
Book an appointment
Payment methods
We accept these payment methods.
debit card
cash
cheque made out to the City of Kitchener
We do not accept payment by credit card.
Other payments
Please call 519-741-2450 or
send us an email.
City’s commitment to respectful interactions
The City of Kitchener is committed to making sure everyone is treated with respect. This means being kind and polite when using City services, visiting City facilities and parks, or attending events. Read more about
the City’s commitment to respectful interactions
.
Pay by e-billing
Our e-billing service combines your tax and utility accounts in one convenient location. Access the self-service portal to view and pay your bills, track utility consumption, request customer service support and more.
Register or sign into e-billing
Visit our
tax and utility e-billing page
to learn more.
Pre-authorized payment plans
You can set up pre-authorized payments from your bank account on either of these plans:
monthly plan
due date plan
On the monthly plan, payments are withdrawn from your bank account on the first business day of each month. We calculate the first six monthly payments using the previous year’s property taxes; the final six reflect the actual property taxes for the year.
On the due date plan, installment amounts are withdrawn according to the amount and due dates of your interim, final and supplementary tax bills. Full terms and conditions can be found on our online application form.
Sign up for pre-authorized payments
You can also set up pre-authorized payments for your
Kitchener Utilities
bills.
Change your banking information
If you're currently on a pre-authorized payment plan and want to change your bank information, submit the online Pre-Authorized Banking Information Change Form at least 14 days before your next payment date.
You can do this by filling out our online form.
Change your banking information online
Cancel pre-authorized payments
To cancel pre-authorized payments, contact our
customer service team
at least 14 days before your next payment date.
Pay through your bank
Online, mobile or telephone banking
You can add the City of Kitchener as a bill payee with most banks. Use the tax roll number on your property tax bill as the account number.
Contact your bank’s customer service department if this does not work.
Allow at least five business days for your bank to process the transaction and send us your payment.
ATM or bank teller
You can pay your bill at an ATM or with a teller at most banks. Allow at least five business days for your bank to process the transaction and send us your payment.
Pay with credit card
You can pay your bill by credit card or debit card online or by phone through Paymentus, a third-party bill payment service:
pay online
call 1 (866) 419-2898
We accept Visa and Mastercard. Paymentus charges a convenience fee for each transaction of 1.75% of your total payment.
Please allow at least four business days for processing.
Pay by mail
You can mail your payment to:
City of Kitchener
Financial Services - Revenue division
PO Box 1113
Kitchener, ON N2G 4R6
Make sure to:
send cheques only (no cash)
make your cheque payable to the City of Kitchener
include the stub of your tax bill with your payment
do not fold, staple, or stamp on the stub
send your complete bill if you need a receipt
Payment boxes
You can drop cheques off in one of the payment boxes at the
Young Street entrance of City Hall
and in the rotunda on the first floor. Cheques must be dated for the bill's due date or earlier.
Make sure to:
send cheques only (no cash)
make your cheque payable to the City of Kitchener
include the stub of your tax bill with your payment
do not fold, staple, or stamp on the stub
send your complete bill if a receipt is required
Pay in person
You can pay your property taxes at the revenue desk on the first floor of
City Hall
. Appointments are available, but not required. We accept cash, cheques and debit payments. We do not accept credit cards.
Book an appointment
Payment by your mortgage provider
If your mortgage provider pays your property taxes, it is your responsibility to make arrangements with them to ensure your taxes are paid by the due date.
Due dates
We collect property taxes in four installments annually. The due dates for 2026 for all properties are:
Interim Tax Bill:
March 2
May 1
Final Tax Bill – Residential:
July 2
September 1
Final Tax Bill – Commercial:
September 1
October 1
2025 tax rates
A breakdown of the various tax rates for 2025 can be found here:
2025 tax rates
Penalties and interest charges
We charge penalties and interest for late payment of your property taxes at a rate of 1.25 per cent monthly.
These charges are added the day after your due date, and the first business day of every subsequent month until the full balance is paid.
Late payments will be applied to the outstanding penalty and interest first, and then to the oldest outstanding taxes.
For more information, please
email us
or call (519) 741-2450.
Contact Us
City of Kitchener
200 King Street West,
Kitchener, Ontario
Telephone:
519-741-2345
,
TTY:
1-866-969-9994
mailto:
info@kitchener.ca
