Source: https://www.regionofwaterloo.ca/en/living-here/garbage.aspx
Title: 
	
     
        Garbage
     - Region of Waterloo

Category: municipal_services

Show
More
Garbage
Print this page
Share this page
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Email
Increase text size
Decrease text size
Home
/
Living Here
/
Garbage and Recycling
/
Garbage
The Region of Waterloo provides curbside garbage collection to eligible households every other week.
Garbage is disposed at the
landfill
. We encourage households to use their green carts and
blue boxes
to sort properly and divert waste from the landfill.
Please note:
Each extra garbage bag set out for collection that is outside of the black cart must have a Region of Waterloo garbage tag on it in order to be collected. Tagged bags of extra garbage will not be collected without the black cart present.  Extra garbage will not be collected if placed inside a garbage can.
Broken glass must be placed in a cardboard box no larger than 12 inches x 12 inches x 12 inches and no more than 20 pounds (9 kilograms), securely taped shut and clearly labelled as “BROKEN GLASS” or “SHARP OBJECTS”, then placed inside your black garbage cart.
Different trucks pick up different materials. The time that your items are collected may vary depending on factors, such as routing changes, road construction, and weather conditions.
If your black garbage cart or extra tagged garbage bag was not collected:
Check for an
Oops! sticker
or flyer. Collection crews may have left behind a sticker indicating a problem.
If there is no sticker and your garbage was set out by 7 a.m. on your collection day for the correct week, please leave your garbage at the curb and use the
online form
to report the issue or call the Service First Contact Centre at 519-575-4400 available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
What are the correct garbage containers to use?
Region-issued black garbage cart
The large black cart has a capacity of 240 litres, and a weight limit of 200 pounds (90 kilograms).
The small black cart has a capacity of 120 litres, and a weight limit of 100 pounds (45 kilograms).
You can fill your cart up to the maximum weight capacity, but the lid needs to be fully closed for collection. Keep items off of your cart lid.
Residents are asked to use the black cart they receive for about six months. If, after that time, you want to size up or down, you can request a one-time exchange, at no cost, starting in fall 2026.  More details to come about this program.
How to sort your waste
Use the
Waste Whiz
app to access the waste sorting tool and learn more about what can get collected in the black garbage carts, including:
Personal hygiene/sanitary products
Flushable and disposable wipes
Furnace filters, garden hose
Dryer lint, cotton swabs, and dental floss
Broken, sharp objects (sealed in a box)
Compostable take-out containers
Garbage bag tags
Each extra garbage bag set out for collection that is outside of the black cart needs to have a Region of Waterloo garbage tag on it in order to be collected. Tagged bags of extra garbage will not be collected without a black cart present.
How to use garbage tags
:
Tie your garbage bag closed. Remove the tag from the backing and wrap it around the neck of the garbage bag, sticking tag ends together. Do not use the tag to seal the bag.
Extra garbage bags placed at the curb will not be collected if they are put inside a garbage can. Please set out tagged garbage bags only.
Garbage bag tags cannot be used on
bulky items
.
Please note that as of March 2, 2026, bag limits no longer apply.
Garbage tags are available for
purchase online
or at a vendor location. Tags do not have an expiry date. There is no refund for unused tags.
Buy online
City of Cambridge
Ainslie Street GRT Transit Terminal
City of Cambridge
: Includes the Allen Reuter Centre, Cambridge Centre for the Arts, David Durward Centre, G.E. (Ted) Wake Lounge, John Dolson Centore, W.G. Johnson Centre, William E. Paulter Centre, and City Hall
Region of Waterloo Public Health Building, Customer Service Desk
(150 Main St.)
Region of Waterloo Waste Management, Cambridge Transfer Station
City of Kitchener
City of Kitchener
: Includes all their community centres
King Street GRT Customer Service Centre
and the GRT Strasburg Building (250 Strasburg Rd.)
Region of Waterloo Administration Headquarters, Customer Service Desk
(150 Frederick St.)
City of Waterloo
City of Waterloo City Hall
City of Waterloo RIM Park
City of Waterloo Service Centre
City of Waterloo Memorial Rec Complex
Region of Waterloo Public Health Building, Customer Service Desk
(99 Regina St.)
Region of Waterloo Waste Management, Waterloo Transfer Station
Township of North Dumfries
North Dumfries Community Complex (NDCC)
Regional Library
: Ayr, Clyde (Satellite) Branches
Township of Wellesley
Regional Library
: Linwood, St. Clements, Wellesley Branches
Township of Wellesley
Township of Wilmot
Regional Library
: Baden, New Dundee, New Hamburg Branches
Township of Wilmot
Wilmot Recreational Complex
Township of Woolwich
Regional Library
: Bloomingdale, Breslau, Elmira, St. Jacobs Branches
Township of Woolwich
: Includes the Woolwich Memorial Centre Recreation Complex, Breslau Community Centre
Wondering how to dispose of a particular item?
Ask the Waste Whiz!
Search
Subscribe to this Page
Contact Us
